# Kubernetes

📌 How it works

IP allocation is driven by Kubernetes Node PodCIDRs.
The Kubernetes controller manager assigns each node a podCIDR.
Cilium allocates Pod IPs from that node’s assigned range.
This is the default behavior in many setups.


✅ Pros
✔ Native Kubernetes integration

Uses standard Kubernetes mechanisms.
Very predictable and easy to understand.
Works well with cloud-managed clusters (EKS, AKS, GKE).

✔ Simple operational model

No additional IPAM backend required.
Easier for teams already familiar with Kubernetes networking.

✔ Stable & widely used



❌ Cons
❌ Less flexible

IP ranges are pre-allocated per node.
If a node doesn’t use all its IPs → wasted space.
If a node needs more than its allocated range → must recreate or resize cluster CIDR.

❌ Scaling limitations

Large clusters require careful CIDR planning.
Harder to expand IP space dynamically.

❌ Less efficient IP usage

Especially problematic in very large or dynamic clusters.


## How to enable

These flags needs to be added to kube-controller-manager file:

```bash
--allocate-node-cidrs=true
--cluster-cidr=10.244.0.0/16
--node-cidr-mask-size=24
```

#### Important caveat: only for Kubernetes Host Scope IPAM

`--allocate-node-cidrs=true` is only relevant when Cilium uses Kubernetes Host Scope IPAM. For any other Cilium IPAM mode (cluster-pool, ENI, Azure, etc.), Cilium completely ignores node podCIDR ranges and assigns podCIDRs to CiliumNode objects instead


### on Cilium configuration

```yaml
ipam:
  mode: "kubernetes"

k8s:
  # renable waiting for Kubernetes to provide the PodCIDR range via the Kubernetes node resource
  requireIPv4PodCIDR: true
  requireIPv6PodCIDR: true
```

* `requireIPv4PodCIDR=false` is bad practice and not recommeneded at all!!!

Cilium won't wait for Kubernetes to provide a PodCIDR. Instead it falls back to auto-generating an allocation range. This has some dangerous consequences:

1. Auto-generated CIDRs can conflict with your network
When there are no more available CIDRs for a node, instead of erroring out, the node gets created and joins the cluster as Ready, pods get scheduled on it, but the Cilium pod goes into `CrashLoopBackoff`. Cilium Worse, Cilium may auto-generate a CIDR that overlaps with your real network.

2. Unpredictable routing
From real-world production incidents: Cilium logs `Using autogenerated IPv4 allocation range` and then keeps retrying with `Waiting for k8s node information error="required IPv4 PodCIDR not available` until it crashes. Cilium If the autogenerated range overlaps with host networking, it can silently break cross-node routing.

3. It's intentionally used for non-standard setups
`requireIPv4PodCIDR: false` is used in cases like AWS ENI mode Cilium where Kubernetes doesn't manage PodCIDRs at all — Cilium gets IPs directly from the cloud provider instead.

